claude-plugin/skills/thrum/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: thrum
description: >
  Multi-agent coordination via messaging, groups, and shared context. Use when
  agents need to communicate, delegate work, or coordinate across worktrees.
allowed-tools: "Bash(thrum:*)"
version: "0.4.0"
author: "Leon Letto <https://github.com/leonletto>"
license: "MIT"
---

# Thrum - Git-Backed Agent Messaging

Run `thrum prime` for full session context (auto-injected by hooks on SessionStart and PreCompact).

## Quick Command Reference

### Messaging

```
thrum send "msg" --to @name              Direct message
thrum send "msg" --to @name -p high      High priority (critical|high|normal|low)
thrum send "msg" --broadcast             Broadcast to all agents
thrum reply <msg-id> "response"          Reply (same audience)
thrum inbox                              List messages (unread first)
thrum inbox --unread                     Unread only
thrum wait                               Block until message arrives (5min timeout)
thrum wait --timeout 120                 Custom timeout (seconds)
```

### Agents

```
thrum quickstart --role R --module M --intent "..."   Register + start session
thrum whoami                                          Show identity
thrum status                                          Agent + daemon status
thrum team                                            List active agents
thrum ping @name                                      Check if agent online
thrum who-has <file>                                  Who's editing a file
```

### Groups

```
thrum group create <name>                Create group
thrum group add <name> @agent            Add agent to group
thrum group add <name> --role <role>     Add all agents with role
thrum group list                         List groups
thrum send "msg" --to @group-name        Message a group
```

### Sessions & Context

```
thrum session start                      Start session
thrum session end                        End session
thrum session set-intent "..."           Update work description
thrum context prime                      Same as thrum prime
thrum context save --file <path>         Save context from file
thrum overview                           Combined status + team + inbox
/thrum:update-context                    Guided context save (narrative + state)
```

### Daemon & Sync

```
thrum daemon start                       Start daemon
thrum daemon stop                        Stop daemon
thrum daemon status                      Daemon health
thrum sync force                         Force immediate sync
thrum sync status                        Sync state
```

### Utility

```
thrum init                               Initialize thrum in repo
thrum prime                              Full session context
thrum prime --json                       Machine-readable output
thrum <cmd> --help                       Detailed command usage
```

## When to Use Thrum

| Thrum | TaskList/SendMessage | Neither |
|-------|---------------------|---------|
| Cross-worktree messaging | Same-session task tracking | Single-agent, no coordination |
| Persistent messages (survive compaction) | Ephemeral task lists | Temporary scratch notes |
| Background listener pattern | Inline progress tracking | Simple linear execution |
| Multi-machine sync via git | Local to conversation | No persistence needed |
| Group messaging | Direct teammate DMs | No audience beyond self |

**Decision test:** "Do messages need to survive session restart or reach agents in other worktrees?" YES = Thrum.

**Thrum + TaskList coexist:** Use TaskList for immediate session work. Use Thrum for cross-session/cross-worktree coordination messages.

## Message Protocol

### Priority Handling

- **critical/high**: Process immediately when received
- **normal**: Process at natural breakpoints
- **low**: Batch and process when idle

### Listener Pattern (Background Message Monitoring)

Launch a background sub-agent to monitor for messages:

```
Task(subagent_type: "message-listener", run_in_background: true)
```

The listener calls `thrum wait` (blocking), then returns when messages arrive.
Re-arm after processing. See [LISTENER_PATTERN.md](resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md).

### Context Management

- `thrum prime` gathers identity, team, inbox, git context, sync health
- Hooks auto-run `thrum prime` on SessionStart and PreCompact
- After compaction: context auto-recovers via PreCompact hook
- Agent identity persists in `.thrum/identities/`

## Resources

| Resource | Content |
|----------|---------|
| [BOUNDARIES.md](resources/BOUNDARIES.md) | Thrum vs TaskList/SendMessage decision guide |
| [MESSAGING.md](resources/MESSAGING.md) | Protocol patterns, priority, context management |
| [ANTI_PATTERNS.md](resources/ANTI_PATTERNS.md) | Common mistakes and how to avoid them |
| [LISTENER_PATTERN.md](resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md) | Background message listener template |
| [CLI_REFERENCE.md](resources/CLI_REFERENCE.md) | Complete command syntax reference |
| [GROUPS.md](resources/GROUPS.md) | Group management patterns |
| [IDENTITY.md](resources/IDENTITY.md) | Agent identity and multi-worktree patterns |
| [WORKTREES.md](resources/WORKTREES.md) | Multi-worktree coordination |

Run `thrum <command> --help` for any command's full usage.

Commit message:

feat: auto-spawn background listener via thrum prime on Claude Code sessions
When thrum prime detects a Claude Code runtime and an active agent identity,
it appends a ready-to-use Task() spawn instruction for the background message
listener. This enables automatic listener setup on SessionStart without
manual configuration.

Also increases listener timeout from 5m to 15m per cycle (6 cycles × 15m =
~90 min coverage), adds Claude Code Plugin documentation page to website,
and adds cross-links from quickstart and agent-configs docs.

claude-plugin/skills/thrum/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: thrum
description: >
  Multi-agent coordination via messaging, groups, and shared context. Use when
  agents need to communicate, delegate work, or coordinate across worktrees.
allowed-tools: "Bash(thrum:*)"
version: "0.4.0"
author: "Leon Letto <https://github.com/leonletto>"
license: "MIT"
---

# Thrum - Git-Backed Agent Messaging

Run `thrum prime` for full session context (auto-injected by hooks on SessionStart and PreCompact).

## Quick Command Reference

### Messaging

```
thrum send "msg" --to @name              Direct message
thrum send "msg" --to @name -p high      High priority (critical|high|normal|low)
thrum send "msg" --broadcast             Broadcast to all agents
thrum reply <msg-id> "response"          Reply (same audience)
thrum inbox                              List messages (unread first)
thrum inbox --unread                     Unread only
thrum wait                               Block until message arrives (5min timeout)
thrum wait --timeout 120                 Custom timeout (seconds)
```

### Agents

```
thrum quickstart --role R --module M --intent "..."   Register + start session
thrum whoami                                          Show identity
thrum status                                          Agent + daemon status
thrum team                                            List active agents
thrum ping @name                                      Check if agent online
thrum who-has <file>                                  Who's editing a file
```

### Groups

```
thrum group create <name>                Create group
thrum group add <name> @agent            Add agent to group
thrum group add <name> --role <role>     Add all agents with role
thrum group list                         List groups
thrum send "msg" --to @group-name        Message a group
```

### Sessions & Context

```
thrum session start                      Start session
thrum session end                        End session
thrum session set-intent "..."           Update work description
thrum context prime                      Same as thrum prime
thrum context save --file <path>         Save context from file
thrum overview                           Combined status + team + inbox
/thrum:update-context                    Guided context save (narrative + state)
```

### Daemon & Sync

```
thrum daemon start                       Start daemon
thrum daemon stop                        Stop daemon
thrum daemon status                      Daemon health
thrum sync force                         Force immediate sync
thrum sync status                        Sync state
```

### Utility

```
thrum init                               Initialize thrum in repo
thrum prime                              Full session context
thrum prime --json                       Machine-readable output
thrum <cmd> --help                       Detailed command usage
```

## When to Use Thrum

| Thrum | TaskList/SendMessage | Neither |
|-------|---------------------|---------|
| Cross-worktree messaging | Same-session task tracking | Single-agent, no coordination |
| Persistent messages (survive compaction) | Ephemeral task lists | Temporary scratch notes |
| Background listener pattern | Inline progress tracking | Simple linear execution |
| Multi-machine sync via git | Local to conversation | No persistence needed |
| Group messaging | Direct teammate DMs | No audience beyond self |

**Decision test:** "Do messages need to survive session restart or reach agents in other worktrees?" YES = Thrum.

**Thrum + TaskList coexist:** Use TaskList for immediate session work. Use Thrum for cross-session/cross-worktree coordination messages.

## Message Protocol

### Priority Handling

- **critical/high**: Process immediately when received
- **normal**: Process at natural breakpoints
- **low**: Batch and process when idle

### Listener Pattern (Background Message Monitoring)

When `thrum prime` detects a Claude Code session with an active identity, it
outputs a ready-to-use listener spawn instruction. Launch it to monitor for
messages in the background (~90 min coverage, 6 cycles × 15 min):

```
Task(subagent_type: "message-listener", model: "haiku", run_in_background: true)
```

The listener calls `thrum wait` (blocking), then returns when messages arrive.
Re-arm after processing. See [LISTENER_PATTERN.md](resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md).

### Context Management

- `thrum prime` gathers identity, team, inbox, git context, sync health
- Hooks auto-run `thrum prime` on SessionStart and PreCompact
- After compaction: context auto-recovers via PreCompact hook
- Agent identity persists in `.thrum/identities/`

## Resources

| Resource | Content |
|----------|---------|
| [BOUNDARIES.md](resources/BOUNDARIES.md) | Thrum vs TaskList/SendMessage decision guide |
| [MESSAGING.md](resources/MESSAGING.md) | Protocol patterns, priority, context management |
| [ANTI_PATTERNS.md](resources/ANTI_PATTERNS.md) | Common mistakes and how to avoid them |
| [LISTENER_PATTERN.md](resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md) | Background message listener template |
| [CLI_REFERENCE.md](resources/CLI_REFERENCE.md) | Complete command syntax reference |
| [GROUPS.md](resources/GROUPS.md) | Group management patterns |
| [IDENTITY.md](resources/IDENTITY.md) | Agent identity and multi-worktree patterns |
| [WORKTREES.md](resources/WORKTREES.md) | Multi-worktree coordination |

Run `thrum <command> --help` for any command's full usage.
