toolkit/commands/README.md, before:

# Thrum Toolkit Commands

Slash-command skills for Claude Code agents working with Thrum.

## What Are Commands?

Commands (also called "skills" or "slash commands") are markdown files that
Claude Code loads as `/command-name` actions. They provide structured guidance
for common workflows.

## Installation

Copy command files to `.claude/commands/` (project-level) or
`~/.claude/commands/` (global):

```bash
# Project-level (this repo only)
mkdir -p .claude/commands
cp toolkit/commands/update-context.md .claude/commands/

# Global (all projects)
mkdir -p ~/.claude/commands
cp toolkit/commands/update-context.md ~/.claude/commands/
```

After installation, invoke with `/update-context` in Claude Code.

## Available Commands

### `update-context.md`

Guides agents to compose and save structured context via `thrum context save`.
The agent writes a narrative summary, then delegates to a subagent that gathers
mechanical state (git, beads) and merges everything into a structured document.

Use when ending a session or at natural breakpoints to preserve context for
future sessions.

## Detection

Run `thrum context update` to check whether the skill is installed and get
installation instructions if not.

Commit message:

fix(docs): complete CLI/MCP documentation accuracy audit (thrum-ic5)
Fix 38 issues found by 5-agent parallel audit of 81 files:
- Fix P0 flag errors: --timeout units, --foreground, --mention-only, --group nesting
- Remove dead CLI docs: thrum thread, daemon health, context update
- Fix P1 accuracy: sync --status→subcommand, role-vs-identity addressing
- Fix thrum wait --all references (flag doesn't exist)
- Overhaul CLI_REFERENCE.md: 121→668 lines with complete flag coverage
- Consolidate duplicated content across 10 locations to canonical sources
- Condense thrum-agent.md: 1093→152 lines (86% reduction)
- Update codex-plugin sync script and 4 stale SKILL.md files
- Remove dead BroadcastFilter struct, add role fan-out warning to send_message
- Add beads sub-agent reference to website docs

toolkit/commands/README.md, after:

# Thrum Toolkit Commands

Slash-command skills for Claude Code agents working with Thrum.

## What Are Commands?

Commands (also called "skills" or "slash commands") are markdown files that
Claude Code loads as `/command-name` actions. They provide structured guidance
for common workflows.

## Installation

Copy command files to `.claude/commands/` (project-level) or
`~/.claude/commands/` (global):

```bash
# Project-level (this repo only)
mkdir -p .claude/commands
cp toolkit/commands/update-context.md .claude/commands/

# Global (all projects)
mkdir -p ~/.claude/commands
cp toolkit/commands/update-context.md ~/.claude/commands/
```

After installation, invoke with `/update-context` in Claude Code.

## Available Commands

### `update-context.md`

Guides agents to compose and save structured context via `thrum context save`.
The agent writes a narrative summary, then delegates to a subagent that gathers
mechanical state (git, beads) and merges everything into a structured document.

Use when ending a session or at natural breakpoints to preserve context for
future sessions.

## Detection

To check whether the skill is installed, look for `update-context.md` in
`.claude/commands/` (project-level) or `~/.claude/commands/` (global).
Context updates are managed via the `/update-context` Claude Code skill.
