website/docs/agent-coordination.md, before:

---
title: "Agent Coordination"
description:
  "Multi-agent workflows, Beads integration, session templates, and coordination
  patterns for AI agent teams"
category: "guides"
order: 1
tags:
  ["coordination", "multi-agent", "beads", "workflows", "patterns", "sessions"]
last_updated: "2026-02-09"
---

## Agent Coordination

Thrum helps you coordinate multiple AI agents across sessions, worktrees, and
machines. This guide covers practical coordination patterns, integration with
the Beads issue tracker, and session workflow templates.

> For the philosophy behind this approach — why you direct the work instead of
> handing it off — see [Why Thrum Exists](philosophy.md).

## Coordination Methods

Thrum supports two integration methods for agent coordination:

### MCP Server (Recommended)

Native tool integration with async message notifications. Best for Claude Code
agents. See [MCP Server](/docs/mcp-server.html) for configuration and the
complete tools reference.

### CLI (Fallback)

Shell commands for basic messaging. Works everywhere.

```bash
thrum send "Starting work on task X" --to @coord_main
thrum inbox --unread
thrum reply <msg-id> "Here's my update"
```

> **Note:** Use agent names (e.g., `@coord_main`), not role names (e.g.,
> `@coordinator`). Sending to a role fans out to ALL agents with that role.
> Run `thrum team` to see agent names.

## Common Workflows

### Planner-Implementer Coordination

The most common pattern: a planner agent assigns work and an implementer
executes it.

**Planner:**

```bash
# Register as planner
thrum quickstart --name planner1 --role planner --module website \
  --intent "Coordinating website development"

# Assign task via message (use agent name, not role)
thrum send "Please implement build script (task thrum-235d.3). \
  Design spec in dev-docs/plans/. Check beads for details." \
  --to @impl1

# Check for updates
thrum inbox
```

**Implementer:**

```bash
# Register
thrum quickstart --name impl1 --role implementer --module website \
  --intent "Implementing website features"

# Check inbox for assignments
thrum inbox --unread

# Acknowledge and work
thrum reply <msg-id> "Claimed task. Starting implementation."

# Send completion update (use agent name from thrum team)
thrum send "Build script complete. Tests passing. Ready for review." \
  --to @planner1
```

### Peer Collaboration

Agents working on related areas coordinate to avoid conflicts.

```bash
# Agent A: Announce work area
thrum send "Starting work on auth module" --to @everyone

# Agent B: Check file ownership before editing
thrum who-has src/auth/login.ts
# Output: @agent_a is editing src/auth/login.ts

# Agent B: Coordinate via message
thrum send "Need to edit login.ts for validation. ETA?" --to @agent_a
```

### Code Review

Request and respond to code reviews via messaging.

**Implementer:**

```bash
thrum send "Build script complete (commit abc123). Please review:
- Markdown processing
- Search index generation
- Error handling

Tests passing. Beads task: thrum-235d.3" --to @reviewer
```

**Reviewer:**

```bash
# Check inbox
thrum inbox --unread

# Review the code, then respond
thrum reply <msg-id> "Reviewed. Found 2 issues:
1. Missing error handling in parseMarkdown()
2. Search index doesn't handle compound terms

See beads: thrum-abc (bug filed). Otherwise looks good."
```

### Multi-Worktree Coordination

Agents in different git worktrees share the same daemon and message store.

**Agent in main worktree:**

```bash
cd /path/to/repo
export THRUM_NAME=main_agent
thrum quickstart --name main_agent --role coordinator --module main \
  --intent "Main branch coordination"

thrum send "Feature branch ready for integration testing" --to @feature_agent
```

**Agent in feature worktree:**

```bash
cd ~/.workspaces/repo/feature
thrum setup --main-repo /path/to/repo
export THRUM_NAME=feature_agent
thrum quickstart --name feature_agent --role implementer --module feature \
  --intent "Feature implementation"

# Check inbox (sees messages from main_agent)
thrum inbox
```

## Message-Listener Pattern

For async message handling, spawn a background sub-agent that listens for
incoming messages and notifies the main agent when they arrive.

### How It Works

1. The main agent spawns a message-listener as a background task
2. The listener uses `thrum wait` (blocks until message arrives or timeout)
3. When a message arrives, the listener returns immediately with the message
   content
4. The main agent processes the message and re-arms the listener

**Recommended approach:** Use `thrum wait` which blocks until a message arrives
or times out. This is more efficient than polling loops with sleep intervals.
Use `--after -30s` to skip old messages, returning only recent/new ones.

### Return Format

When messages are received:

```text
MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: [sender]
CONTENT: [message content]
TIMESTAMP: [timestamp]
---
```

When timeout occurs with no messages:

```text
NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT
```

### Context Management

- Re-arm the listener after processing messages (the listener exits after
  returning)
- After 5 consecutive timeouts with no pending work, send status to the
  coordinator and stop the listener
- The listener is read-only; it never sends messages

## Beads Integration

When both Thrum and [Beads](https://github.com/leonletto/thrum) are available,
use them together for full coordination:

| Concern                 | Tool  | Why                                       |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Real-time communication | Thrum | Messages, status updates, review requests |
| Task management         | Beads | Issues, dependencies, work discovery      |
| Progress tracking       | Beads | Status fields, close with reason          |
| Notifications           | Thrum | Alert team to progress or blockers        |

### Unified Workflow

```bash
# 1. Register in Thrum
thrum quickstart --name impl_auth --role implementer --module auth \
  --intent "Implementing auth system"

# 2. Find work in Beads
bd ready

# 3. Claim in Beads
bd update bd-123 --status in_progress

# 4. Announce via Thrum (use agent name, not role)
thrum send "Starting bd-123: JWT authentication" --to @coord_main

# 5. Work on implementation...

# 6. Discover issues -> file in Beads
bd create --title="Found validation bug" --type=bug --priority=1

# 7. Update coordinator via Thrum
thrum send "Progress: JWT working, found validation bug (filed bd-456)" \
  --to @coord_main

# 8. Complete in Beads
bd close bd-123 --reason="JWT auth complete with tests"

# 9. Announce via Thrum
thrum send "Completed bd-123. Ready for review." \
  --to @reviewer1

# 10. Sync both
bd sync
thrum sync force
```

### Mapping Convention

| Concept    | Beads                  | Thrum                                   |
| ---------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Task ID    | `bd-123`               | Include in message: "Working on bd-123" |
| Status     | `bd update --status`   | Send message with update                |
| Assignment | `bd update --assignee` | Send message to specific agent          |
| Completion | `bd close`             | Send completion message                 |
| Discovery  | `bd create`            | Notify via message                      |

## Session Workflow Template

Use this template for every agent session:

```bash
# === START OF SESSION ===

# 1. Register and start session
thrum quickstart --name <name> --role <role> --module <module> \
  --intent "<description>"

# 2. Check inbox for any urgent messages
thrum inbox --unread

# 3. Find work (Beads)
bd ready

# 4. Claim task (Beads)
bd update <id> --status in_progress

# 5. Announce start (Thrum) — use agent name from `thrum team`
thrum send "Starting work on <id>: <description>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# === DURING SESSION ===

# 6. Send periodic status updates
thrum send "Progress: <status>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# 7. Handle incoming messages
thrum inbox --unread

# 8. Coordinate on blockers
thrum send "Blocked: <description>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# === END OF SESSION ===

# 9. Complete work (Beads)
bd close <id> --reason "Complete"
bd sync

# 10. Announce completion (Thrum) — use agent name from `thrum team`
thrum send "Completed <id>. Tests passing. Ready for review." \
  --to @<reviewer-name>

# 11. End session
thrum session end
```

## Best Practices

### Do

- **Register at session start** -- always use `thrum quickstart`
- **Use MCP server when available** -- better than CLI polling
- **Send status updates** -- keep the team informed
- **Use @mentions** -- reference agents by name
- **Include context** -- Beads IDs, file paths, commit hashes
- **End sessions cleanly** -- run `thrum session end` when done
- **Set clear intents** -- describe what you're working on
- **Broadcast milestones** -- share important progress with the team

### Don't

- **Don't use Thrum for task management** -- use Beads for that
- **Don't spam messages** -- batch updates when possible
- **Don't forget to re-arm the listener** -- after processing messages
- **Don't ignore critical messages** -- stop work and respond
- **Don't skip registration** -- the system won't route messages correctly
- **Don't leave sessions open** -- end them when done to avoid stale status
- **Don't use vague intents** -- be specific about current work

## Troubleshooting

### Not receiving messages

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
# Check registration
thrum status

# Check daemon
thrum daemon status

# Check inbox manually
thrum inbox
```

**Solutions:**

1. **Not registered** -- run `thrum quickstart`
2. **Daemon not running** -- run `thrum daemon start`
3. **Wrong agent name** -- check `THRUM_NAME` env var
4. **Sync issues** -- run `thrum sync force` to pull latest messages

### Messages not syncing

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Check git remote
git remote -v
```

**Solutions:**

1. **No remote** -- add a git remote
2. **Not committed** -- daemon auto-commits after 60s, or run `thrum sync force`
3. **Not pushed** -- run `thrum sync force` to push
4. **Branch diverged** -- pull and retry

### Multiple agents with same name

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
thrum agent list
```

**Solutions:**

1. **Use unique names** -- each agent needs a unique name
2. **Delete duplicates** -- `thrum agent delete <name>`
3. **Use THRUM_NAME** -- set different names per worktree

### Context recovery after compaction

After conversation compaction, agents can recover context:

```bash
# Check inbox for recent messages
thrum inbox --unread

# Check what others are working on
thrum agent list --context

# Check Beads for task state
bd ready
bd list --status=in_progress
```

## See Also

- [Workflow Templates](workflow-templates.md) -- three-phase agent development
  workflows (plan, prepare, implement)
- [Multi-Agent Support](multi-agent.md) -- groups, runtime presets, and team
  coordination
- [Tailscale Sync](tailscale-sync.md) -- cross-machine sync via Tailscale
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) -- complete command documentation
- [MCP Server](mcp-server.md) -- MCP tools and message-listener details
- [Messaging System](messaging.md) -- message structure and scopes
- [Quickstart Guide](quickstart.md) -- getting started in 5 minutes
- [Identity System](identity.md) -- agent names and registration
```

Commit message:

fix(docs): clarify --after flag sign convention across all docs
Negative = "N ago" (e.g., -30s includes messages sent up to 30s ago).
Positive = "N from now" (e.g., +60s skips ahead). Omitted = "now".
Updated CLI help text, plugin docs, website, codex mirrors, and llms files.

website/docs/agent-coordination.md, after:

---
title: "Agent Coordination"
description:
  "Multi-agent workflows, Beads integration, session templates, and coordination
  patterns for AI agent teams"
category: "guides"
order: 1
tags:
  ["coordination", "multi-agent", "beads", "workflows", "patterns", "sessions"]
last_updated: "2026-02-09"
---

## Agent Coordination

Thrum helps you coordinate multiple AI agents across sessions, worktrees, and
machines. This guide covers practical coordination patterns, integration with
the Beads issue tracker, and session workflow templates.

> For the philosophy behind this approach — why you direct the work instead of
> handing it off — see [Why Thrum Exists](philosophy.md).

## Coordination Methods

Thrum supports two integration methods for agent coordination:

### MCP Server (Recommended)

Native tool integration with async message notifications. Best for Claude Code
agents. See [MCP Server](/docs/mcp-server.html) for configuration and the
complete tools reference.

### CLI (Fallback)

Shell commands for basic messaging. Works everywhere.

```bash
thrum send "Starting work on task X" --to @coord_main
thrum inbox --unread
thrum reply <msg-id> "Here's my update"
```

> **Note:** Use agent names (e.g., `@coord_main`), not role names (e.g.,
> `@coordinator`). Sending to a role fans out to ALL agents with that role.
> Run `thrum team` to see agent names.

## Common Workflows

### Planner-Implementer Coordination

The most common pattern: a planner agent assigns work and an implementer
executes it.

**Planner:**

```bash
# Register as planner
thrum quickstart --name planner1 --role planner --module website \
  --intent "Coordinating website development"

# Assign task via message (use agent name, not role)
thrum send "Please implement build script (task thrum-235d.3). \
  Design spec in dev-docs/plans/. Check beads for details." \
  --to @impl1

# Check for updates
thrum inbox
```

**Implementer:**

```bash
# Register
thrum quickstart --name impl1 --role implementer --module website \
  --intent "Implementing website features"

# Check inbox for assignments
thrum inbox --unread

# Acknowledge and work
thrum reply <msg-id> "Claimed task. Starting implementation."

# Send completion update (use agent name from thrum team)
thrum send "Build script complete. Tests passing. Ready for review." \
  --to @planner1
```

### Peer Collaboration

Agents working on related areas coordinate to avoid conflicts.

```bash
# Agent A: Announce work area
thrum send "Starting work on auth module" --to @everyone

# Agent B: Check file ownership before editing
thrum who-has src/auth/login.ts
# Output: @agent_a is editing src/auth/login.ts

# Agent B: Coordinate via message
thrum send "Need to edit login.ts for validation. ETA?" --to @agent_a
```

### Code Review

Request and respond to code reviews via messaging.

**Implementer:**

```bash
thrum send "Build script complete (commit abc123). Please review:
- Markdown processing
- Search index generation
- Error handling

Tests passing. Beads task: thrum-235d.3" --to @reviewer
```

**Reviewer:**

```bash
# Check inbox
thrum inbox --unread

# Review the code, then respond
thrum reply <msg-id> "Reviewed. Found 2 issues:
1. Missing error handling in parseMarkdown()
2. Search index doesn't handle compound terms

See beads: thrum-abc (bug filed). Otherwise looks good."
```

### Multi-Worktree Coordination

Agents in different git worktrees share the same daemon and message store.

**Agent in main worktree:**

```bash
cd /path/to/repo
export THRUM_NAME=main_agent
thrum quickstart --name main_agent --role coordinator --module main \
  --intent "Main branch coordination"

thrum send "Feature branch ready for integration testing" --to @feature_agent
```

**Agent in feature worktree:**

```bash
cd ~/.workspaces/repo/feature
thrum setup --main-repo /path/to/repo
export THRUM_NAME=feature_agent
thrum quickstart --name feature_agent --role implementer --module feature \
  --intent "Feature implementation"

# Check inbox (sees messages from main_agent)
thrum inbox
```

## Message-Listener Pattern

For async message handling, spawn a background sub-agent that listens for
incoming messages and notifies the main agent when they arrive.

### How It Works

1. The main agent spawns a message-listener as a background task
2. The listener uses `thrum wait` (blocks until message arrives or timeout)
3. When a message arrives, the listener returns immediately with the message
   content
4. The main agent processes the message and re-arms the listener

**Recommended approach:** Use `thrum wait` which blocks until a message arrives
or times out. This is more efficient than polling loops with sleep intervals.
Use `--after -30s` to include messages sent up to 30 seconds ago (`--after` negative value = "N ago"). Omit `--after` to receive only messages that arrive after the wait starts.

### Return Format

When messages are received:

```text
MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: [sender]
CONTENT: [message content]
TIMESTAMP: [timestamp]
---
```

When timeout occurs with no messages:

```text
NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT
```

### Context Management

- Re-arm the listener after processing messages (the listener exits after
  returning)
- After 5 consecutive timeouts with no pending work, send status to the
  coordinator and stop the listener
- The listener is read-only; it never sends messages

## Beads Integration

When both Thrum and [Beads](https://github.com/leonletto/thrum) are available,
use them together for full coordination:

| Concern                 | Tool  | Why                                       |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Real-time communication | Thrum | Messages, status updates, review requests |
| Task management         | Beads | Issues, dependencies, work discovery      |
| Progress tracking       | Beads | Status fields, close with reason          |
| Notifications           | Thrum | Alert team to progress or blockers        |

### Unified Workflow

```bash
# 1. Register in Thrum
thrum quickstart --name impl_auth --role implementer --module auth \
  --intent "Implementing auth system"

# 2. Find work in Beads
bd ready

# 3. Claim in Beads
bd update bd-123 --status in_progress

# 4. Announce via Thrum (use agent name, not role)
thrum send "Starting bd-123: JWT authentication" --to @coord_main

# 5. Work on implementation...

# 6. Discover issues -> file in Beads
bd create --title="Found validation bug" --type=bug --priority=1

# 7. Update coordinator via Thrum
thrum send "Progress: JWT working, found validation bug (filed bd-456)" \
  --to @coord_main

# 8. Complete in Beads
bd close bd-123 --reason="JWT auth complete with tests"

# 9. Announce via Thrum
thrum send "Completed bd-123. Ready for review." \
  --to @reviewer1

# 10. Sync both
bd sync
thrum sync force
```

### Mapping Convention

| Concept    | Beads                  | Thrum                                   |
| ---------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Task ID    | `bd-123`               | Include in message: "Working on bd-123" |
| Status     | `bd update --status`   | Send message with update                |
| Assignment | `bd update --assignee` | Send message to specific agent          |
| Completion | `bd close`             | Send completion message                 |
| Discovery  | `bd create`            | Notify via message                      |

## Session Workflow Template

Use this template for every agent session:

```bash
# === START OF SESSION ===

# 1. Register and start session
thrum quickstart --name <name> --role <role> --module <module> \
  --intent "<description>"

# 2. Check inbox for any urgent messages
thrum inbox --unread

# 3. Find work (Beads)
bd ready

# 4. Claim task (Beads)
bd update <id> --status in_progress

# 5. Announce start (Thrum) — use agent name from `thrum team`
thrum send "Starting work on <id>: <description>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# === DURING SESSION ===

# 6. Send periodic status updates
thrum send "Progress: <status>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# 7. Handle incoming messages
thrum inbox --unread

# 8. Coordinate on blockers
thrum send "Blocked: <description>" --to @<coordinator-name>

# === END OF SESSION ===

# 9. Complete work (Beads)
bd close <id> --reason "Complete"
bd sync

# 10. Announce completion (Thrum) — use agent name from `thrum team`
thrum send "Completed <id>. Tests passing. Ready for review." \
  --to @<reviewer-name>

# 11. End session
thrum session end
```

## Best Practices

### Do

- **Register at session start** -- always use `thrum quickstart`
- **Use MCP server when available** -- better than CLI polling
- **Send status updates** -- keep the team informed
- **Use @mentions** -- reference agents by name
- **Include context** -- Beads IDs, file paths, commit hashes
- **End sessions cleanly** -- run `thrum session end` when done
- **Set clear intents** -- describe what you're working on
- **Broadcast milestones** -- share important progress with the team

### Don't

- **Don't use Thrum for task management** -- use Beads for that
- **Don't spam messages** -- batch updates when possible
- **Don't forget to re-arm the listener** -- after processing messages
- **Don't ignore critical messages** -- stop work and respond
- **Don't skip registration** -- the system won't route messages correctly
- **Don't leave sessions open** -- end them when done to avoid stale status
- **Don't use vague intents** -- be specific about current work

## Troubleshooting

### Not receiving messages

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
# Check registration
thrum status

# Check daemon
thrum daemon status

# Check inbox manually
thrum inbox
```

**Solutions:**

1. **Not registered** -- run `thrum quickstart`
2. **Daemon not running** -- run `thrum daemon start`
3. **Wrong agent name** -- check `THRUM_NAME` env var
4. **Sync issues** -- run `thrum sync force` to pull latest messages

### Messages not syncing

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Check git remote
git remote -v
```

**Solutions:**

1. **No remote** -- add a git remote
2. **Not committed** -- daemon auto-commits after 60s, or run `thrum sync force`
3. **Not pushed** -- run `thrum sync force` to push
4. **Branch diverged** -- pull and retry

### Multiple agents with same name

**Diagnosis:**

```bash
thrum agent list
```

**Solutions:**

1. **Use unique names** -- each agent needs a unique name
2. **Delete duplicates** -- `thrum agent delete <name>`
3. **Use THRUM_NAME** -- set different names per worktree

### Context recovery after compaction

After conversation compaction, agents can recover context:

```bash
# Check inbox for recent messages
thrum inbox --unread

# Check what others are working on
thrum agent list --context

# Check Beads for task state
bd ready
bd list --status=in_progress
```

## See Also

- [Workflow Templates](workflow-templates.md) -- three-phase agent development
  workflows (plan, prepare, implement)
- [Multi-Agent Support](multi-agent.md) -- groups, runtime presets, and team
  coordination
- [Tailscale Sync](tailscale-sync.md) -- cross-machine sync via Tailscale
- [CLI Reference](cli.md) -- complete command documentation
- [MCP Server](mcp-server.md) -- MCP tools and message-listener details
- [Messaging System](messaging.md) -- message structure and scopes
- [Quickstart Guide](quickstart.md) -- getting started in 5 minutes
- [Identity System](identity.md) -- agent names and registration
```
