website/docs/workflow-templates.md, before:

---
title: "Workflow Templates"
description: "Three-phase development templates for planning, preparing, and implementing features with AI agents"
category: "guides"
order: 3
tags: ["templates", "workflow", "planning", "implementation", "agents", "toolkit"]
last_updated: "2026-02-12"
---

# Workflow Templates

Thrum ships ready-to-use templates that guide AI agents through planning, preparing, and implementing features. You copy them into your project and customize the placeholders for your environment.

Templates live in `toolkit/templates/` in the Thrum repository.

## The three-phase workflow

```
1. PLAN              2. PREPARE            3. IMPLEMENT
─────────────        ──────────────        ─────────────────────
Brainstorm           Select/create         Orient from beads
Write spec           worktree              Implement tasks
Create epics         Setup thrum +         Test → commit → close
Create tasks         beads redirect        Quality gates
Set deps             Run quickstart        Merge to main
```

**Plan** — Explore codebase, propose approaches, write design spec, decompose into beads epics with detailed task descriptions.

**Prepare** — Select or create git worktree, configure thrum and beads redirects so all worktrees share the same daemon and issue database. Bootstrap agent identity.

**Implement** — Work through tasks in dependency order: claim → read → implement → test → commit → close. Orient phase reads beads status and git history for resume after context loss.

## Install the templates

Copy the templates into your project documentation:

```bash
cp toolkit/templates/*.md your-project/docs/templates/
```

Or reference them directly from the Thrum repo when starting a new agent session.

## Customize the placeholders

Templates use `{{PLACEHOLDER}}` syntax for project-specific values. Replace these before giving a template to an agent.

### Planning agent placeholders

```bash
{{FEATURE_DESCRIPTION}} → "Add WebSocket sync between agents"
{{PROJECT_ROOT}}        → /home/user/projects/myproject
{{DESIGN_DOC_DIR}}      → docs/plans/
{{REFERENCE_DOCS}}      → .ref/example_project/, dev-docs/architecture.md
{{TECH_STACK}}          → Go backend, React/TypeScript UI, SQLite, JSONL
```

### Worktree setup placeholders

```bash
{{PROJECT_ROOT}}  → /home/user/projects/myproject
{{WORKTREE_BASE}} → ~/.workspaces/myproject
{{FEATURE_NAME}}  → auth
```

### Implementation agent placeholders

```bash
{{EPIC_ID}}          → bd-a3f8
{{WORKTREE_PATH}}    → ~/.workspaces/myproject/auth
{{BRANCH_NAME}}      → feature/auth
{{DESIGN_DOC}}       → docs/plans/2026-02-auth-design.md
{{REFERENCE_CODE}}   → .ref/example_auth_impl/
{{QUALITY_COMMANDS}} → make test && make lint
{{COVERAGE_TARGET}}  → >80%
{{AGENT_NAME}}       → impl-auth
```

### Example: Fill in for a real project

You're building authentication for a Go service. Here's how you customize the implementation template:

```bash
{{EPIC_ID}}          → bd-k7m2
{{WORKTREE_PATH}}    → ~/.workspaces/myservice/auth
{{BRANCH_NAME}}      → feature/auth-jwt
{{DESIGN_DOC}}       → docs/plans/2026-02-jwt-auth.md
{{REFERENCE_CODE}}   → .ref/gorilla-sessions-example/
{{QUALITY_COMMANDS}} → go test ./... && golangci-lint run
{{COVERAGE_TARGET}}  → >85%
{{AGENT_NAME}}       → impl-auth-jwt
```

Save the filled-in template as a file or paste it directly into your agent's prompt.

## Use the planning template

Give `planning-agent.md` to a planning agent when you have a feature idea and need actionable tasks.

**Produces:** Design spec, beads epics, detailed task descriptions, dependency relationships.

Planning agents front-load detail into task descriptions so implementation agents work autonomously without conversation history.

## Use the worktree setup guide

Follow `worktree-setup.md` when an epic needs an isolated workspace.

**Does:** Check existing worktrees for reuse, create new worktree + branch if needed, configure thrum and beads redirects, bootstrap agent identity, verify with `bd where`, `bd ready`, and `thrum context show`.

Without redirect configuration, agents in different worktrees see different tasks and different daemon instances.

### Setup script

The `setup-worktree-thrum.sh` script handles full worktree bootstrapping in a single command:

```bash
# Full worktree setup with identity
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh ~/.workspaces/myproject/auth feature/auth \
  --identity impl-auth \
  --role implementer
```

This creates the worktree, sets up thrum and beads redirects, and registers the agent identity. The `thrum quickstart` command (used internally) auto-creates a default preamble with thrum quick-reference commands.

## Use the implementation template

Give `implementation-agent.md` to an implementation agent when an epic has tasks and a worktree is ready.

**Orient** — Check beads status and git state to find starting point (works for fresh starts and resumes).

**Implement** — Work through tasks: claim → read → implement → test → commit → close.

**Verify** — Run full quality gates after all tasks complete.

**Land** — Close epic, merge to main, push.

After context loss, restart with the same filled-in template. Orient re-runs and picks up from the first incomplete task. Completed work is never redone.

## See also

- [Agent Configuration](agent-configs.md) — How to configure agents for autonomous operation
- [Beads and Thrum Integration](beads-and-thrum.md) — How the workflow uses beads for task tracking and Thrum for coordination
- [Quick Start](quickstart.md) — Set up Thrum and run your first multi-agent workflow

Commit message:

docs: fix LOW severity issues from v0.4.3 doc audit (Batch 3)
- Fix schema version 8→13 in architecture.md (thrum-qqg2)
- Clarify sync loop skip behavior for remote ops
- Add setup claude-md to worktree automation template
- Fix typos in philosophy.md
- Add subscription cleanup note to daemon methods table

website/docs/workflow-templates.md, after:

---
title: "Workflow Templates"
description: "Three-phase development templates for planning, preparing, and implementing features with AI agents"
category: "guides"
order: 3
tags: ["templates", "workflow", "planning", "implementation", "agents", "toolkit"]
last_updated: "2026-02-12"
---

# Workflow Templates

Thrum ships ready-to-use templates that guide AI agents through planning, preparing, and implementing features. You copy them into your project and customize the placeholders for your environment.

Templates live in `toolkit/templates/` in the Thrum repository.

## The three-phase workflow

```
1. PLAN              2. PREPARE            3. IMPLEMENT
─────────────        ──────────────        ─────────────────────
Brainstorm           Select/create         Orient from beads
Write spec           worktree              Implement tasks
Create epics         Setup thrum +         Test → commit → close
Create tasks         beads redirect        Quality gates
Set deps             Run quickstart        Merge to main
```

**Plan** — Explore codebase, propose approaches, write design spec, decompose into beads epics with detailed task descriptions.

**Prepare** — Select or create git worktree, configure thrum and beads redirects so all worktrees share the same daemon and issue database. Bootstrap agent identity.

**Implement** — Work through tasks in dependency order: claim → read → implement → test → commit → close. Orient phase reads beads status and git history for resume after context loss.

## Install the templates

Copy the templates into your project documentation:

```bash
cp toolkit/templates/*.md your-project/docs/templates/
```

Or reference them directly from the Thrum repo when starting a new agent session.

## Customize the placeholders

Templates use `{{PLACEHOLDER}}` syntax for project-specific values. Replace these before giving a template to an agent.

### Planning agent placeholders

```bash
{{FEATURE_DESCRIPTION}} → "Add WebSocket sync between agents"
{{PROJECT_ROOT}}        → /home/user/projects/myproject
{{DESIGN_DOC_DIR}}      → docs/plans/
{{REFERENCE_DOCS}}      → .ref/example_project/, dev-docs/architecture.md
{{TECH_STACK}}          → Go backend, React/TypeScript UI, SQLite, JSONL
```

### Worktree setup placeholders

```bash
{{PROJECT_ROOT}}  → /home/user/projects/myproject
{{WORKTREE_BASE}} → ~/.workspaces/myproject
{{FEATURE_NAME}}  → auth
```

### Implementation agent placeholders

```bash
{{EPIC_ID}}          → bd-a3f8
{{WORKTREE_PATH}}    → ~/.workspaces/myproject/auth
{{BRANCH_NAME}}      → feature/auth
{{DESIGN_DOC}}       → docs/plans/2026-02-auth-design.md
{{REFERENCE_CODE}}   → .ref/example_auth_impl/
{{QUALITY_COMMANDS}} → make test && make lint
{{COVERAGE_TARGET}}  → >80%
{{AGENT_NAME}}       → impl-auth
```

### Example: Fill in for a real project

You're building authentication for a Go service. Here's how you customize the implementation template:

```bash
{{EPIC_ID}}          → bd-k7m2
{{WORKTREE_PATH}}    → ~/.workspaces/myservice/auth
{{BRANCH_NAME}}      → feature/auth-jwt
{{DESIGN_DOC}}       → docs/plans/2026-02-jwt-auth.md
{{REFERENCE_CODE}}   → .ref/gorilla-sessions-example/
{{QUALITY_COMMANDS}} → go test ./... && golangci-lint run
{{COVERAGE_TARGET}}  → >85%
{{AGENT_NAME}}       → impl-auth-jwt
```

Save the filled-in template as a file or paste it directly into your agent's prompt.

## Use the planning template

Give `planning-agent.md` to a planning agent when you have a feature idea and need actionable tasks.

**Produces:** Design spec, beads epics, detailed task descriptions, dependency relationships.

Planning agents front-load detail into task descriptions so implementation agents work autonomously without conversation history.

## Use the worktree setup guide

Follow `worktree-setup.md` when an epic needs an isolated workspace.

**Does:** Check existing worktrees for reuse, create new worktree + branch if needed, configure thrum and beads redirects, bootstrap agent identity, verify with `bd where`, `bd ready`, and `thrum context show`.

Without redirect configuration, agents in different worktrees see different tasks and different daemon instances.

### Setup script

The `setup-worktree-thrum.sh` script handles full worktree bootstrapping in a single command:

```bash
# Full worktree setup with identity
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh ~/.workspaces/myproject/auth feature/auth \
  --identity impl-auth \
  --role implementer
```

This creates the worktree, sets up thrum and beads redirects, and registers the agent identity. The `thrum quickstart` command (used internally) auto-creates a default preamble with thrum quick-reference commands. For projects using custom agent docs in `.agents/`, run `thrum setup claude-md --apply` to configure the worktree's CLAUDE.md.

## Use the implementation template

Give `implementation-agent.md` to an implementation agent when an epic has tasks and a worktree is ready.

**Orient** — Check beads status and git state to find starting point (works for fresh starts and resumes).

**Implement** — Work through tasks: claim → read → implement → test → commit → close.

**Verify** — Run full quality gates after all tasks complete.

**Land** — Close epic, merge to main, push.

After context loss, restart with the same filled-in template. Orient re-runs and picks up from the first incomplete task. Completed work is never redone.

## See also

- [Agent Configuration](agent-configs.md) — How to configure agents for autonomous operation
- [Beads and Thrum Integration](beads-and-thrum.md) — How the workflow uses beads for task tracking and Thrum for coordination
- [Quick Start](quickstart.md) — Set up Thrum and run your first multi-agent workflow
