claude-plugin/skills/thrum/resources/ANTI_PATTERNS.md, before:

# Anti-Patterns

Common mistakes when using Thrum and how to avoid them.

## 1. Using Thrum for Task Management

**Wrong:** Sending messages like "TODO: implement auth" to yourself.
**Right:** Use Beads (`bd create`) for task tracking. Use Thrum for coordination messages between agents.

## 2. Polling Instead of Waiting

**Wrong:** Looping `thrum inbox` every 10 seconds.
**Right:** Use `thrum wait` which blocks efficiently until a message arrives. Or use the message-listener sub-agent pattern for background monitoring.

## 3. Forgetting to Re-arm the Listener

**Wrong:** Processing messages from listener, then continuing work without re-arming.
**Right:** After processing listener results, always spawn a new message-listener:

```
Task(subagent_type="message-listener", run_in_background=true, prompt="...")
```

## 4. Using --broadcast Instead of @everyone

**Wrong:** `thrum send "msg" --broadcast`
**Right:** `thrum send "msg" --to @everyone`

The `--broadcast` flag is deprecated. The `@everyone` group is auto-created and handles membership dynamically.

## 5. Skipping Registration

**Wrong:** Sending messages without running `thrum quickstart` first.
**Right:** Always register at session start. Without registration, messages won't be routed correctly and `thrum inbox` won't know who you are.

## 6. Ignoring Critical Priority Messages

**Wrong:** Continuing current work when a critical message arrives.
**Right:** Stop current work immediately. Critical messages indicate production issues or team-blocking situations.

## 7. Vague Intents

**Wrong:** `thrum quickstart --intent "Working on stuff"`
**Right:** `thrum quickstart --intent "Implementing JWT auth for login endpoint (bd-123)"`

Specific intents help other agents understand what you're doing via `thrum team`.

## 8. Leaving Sessions Open

**Wrong:** Finishing work but not ending the session.
**Right:** Run `thrum session end` when done. Stale sessions make `thrum team` unreliable.

## 9. Reading Files Instead of Using CLI

**Wrong:** Reading `.git/thrum-sync/` files directly with the Read tool.
**Right:** Use `thrum inbox`, `thrum status`, `thrum prime`. The SKILL.md `allowed-tools` is `Bash(thrum:*)` — no Read permission needed.

## 10. Sending Messages to Yourself

**Wrong:** `thrum send "note to self" --to @me`
**Right:** Use Beads notes (`bd update <id> --notes "..."`) for self-notes. Thrum is for inter-agent communication.

## 11. Spamming Status Updates

**Wrong:** Sending a message after every line of code.
**Right:** Batch updates at natural breakpoints — after completing a subtask, hitting a blocker, or finishing the main task.

## 12. Not Including Context in Messages

**Wrong:** `thrum send "done" --to @lead`
**Right:** `thrum send "Completed bd-123: JWT auth with tests passing. 3 files changed." --to @lead`

Include Beads IDs, file paths, commit hashes — anything that helps the recipient act on the message.

Commit message:

chore: resolve nice-to-have items for v0.4.4
- Remove --mark-read flag (N-01, dead code)
- Un-deprecate --broadcast and broadcast_message — now proper aliases
  for --to @everyone (N-02)
- Fix --limit default to 0 sentinel so it doesn't override --page-size (N-03)
- Update plugin version table to v0.4.4 (N-04)
- Fix overview.md tools listing to "5 core + 6 management" (N-05)
- Add version header to llms-full.txt (N-07)
- Remove all broadcast deprecation notices across 15+ files
- Sync docs/ via sync-docs.sh

claude-plugin/skills/thrum/resources/ANTI_PATTERNS.md, after:

# Anti-Patterns

Common mistakes when using Thrum and how to avoid them.

## 1. Using Thrum for Task Management

**Wrong:** Sending messages like "TODO: implement auth" to yourself.
**Right:** Use Beads (`bd create`) for task tracking. Use Thrum for coordination messages between agents.

## 2. Polling Instead of Waiting

**Wrong:** Looping `thrum inbox` every 10 seconds.
**Right:** Use `thrum wait` which blocks efficiently until a message arrives. Or use the message-listener sub-agent pattern for background monitoring.

## 3. Forgetting to Re-arm the Listener

**Wrong:** Processing messages from listener, then continuing work without re-arming.
**Right:** After processing listener results, always spawn a new message-listener:

```
Task(subagent_type="message-listener", run_in_background=true, prompt="...")
```

## 4. Broadcasting Without the @everyone Group

All three forms are equivalent — use whichever reads best in context:

```bash
thrum send "msg" --broadcast
thrum send "msg" --to @everyone
thrum send "msg" --everyone
```

The `@everyone` group is auto-created and handles membership dynamically.

## 5. Skipping Registration

**Wrong:** Sending messages without running `thrum quickstart` first.
**Right:** Always register at session start. Without registration, messages won't be routed correctly and `thrum inbox` won't know who you are.

## 6. Ignoring Critical Priority Messages

**Wrong:** Continuing current work when a critical message arrives.
**Right:** Stop current work immediately. Critical messages indicate production issues or team-blocking situations.

## 7. Vague Intents

**Wrong:** `thrum quickstart --intent "Working on stuff"`
**Right:** `thrum quickstart --intent "Implementing JWT auth for login endpoint (bd-123)"`

Specific intents help other agents understand what you're doing via `thrum team`.

## 8. Leaving Sessions Open

**Wrong:** Finishing work but not ending the session.
**Right:** Run `thrum session end` when done. Stale sessions make `thrum team` unreliable.

## 9. Reading Files Instead of Using CLI

**Wrong:** Reading `.git/thrum-sync/` files directly with the Read tool.
**Right:** Use `thrum inbox`, `thrum status`, `thrum prime`. The SKILL.md `allowed-tools` is `Bash(thrum:*)` — no Read permission needed.

## 10. Sending Messages to Yourself

**Wrong:** `thrum send "note to self" --to @me`
**Right:** Use Beads notes (`bd update <id> --notes "..."`) for self-notes. Thrum is for inter-agent communication.

## 11. Spamming Status Updates

**Wrong:** Sending a message after every line of code.
**Right:** Batch updates at natural breakpoints — after completing a subtask, hitting a blocker, or finishing the main task.

## 12. Not Including Context in Messages

**Wrong:** `thrum send "done" --to @lead`
**Right:** `thrum send "Completed bd-123: JWT auth with tests passing. 3 files changed." --to @lead`

Include Beads IDs, file paths, commit hashes — anything that helps the recipient act on the message.
