claude-plugin/skills/thrum/resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md, before:

# Listener Pattern: Background Message Monitoring

The message-listener is a background sub-agent that blocks on `thrum wait` and returns when messages arrive. Runs on Haiku for cost efficiency (~$0.00003/cycle).

## Quick Start

```
Task(
  subagent_type="message-listener",
  model="haiku",
  run_in_background=true,
  prompt="Listen for Thrum messages. WAIT_CMD=cd /path/to/repo && thrum wait --all --timeout 5m --after -30s --json"
)
```

Replace `/path/to/repo` with the actual repo path.

## How It Works

1. **Spawn** — Launch as background Task with `run_in_background: true`
2. **Block** — Listener runs `thrum wait` which blocks until message or timeout
3. **Return** — Returns `MESSAGES_RECEIVED` (with message data) or `NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT`
4. **Re-arm** — After processing, spawn a new listener to continue monitoring

The listener loops internally (up to 6 cycles of 5 min each = ~30 min max).

## Processing Messages

```
# When listener returns, check result
listenerResult = TaskOutput(listener_id)

if "MESSAGES_RECEIVED" in result:
    # Read full messages
    thrum inbox --unread

    # Handle by priority:
    # - critical: stop current work, handle immediately
    # - high: handle at next breakpoint
    # - normal/low: queue for later

    # Re-arm listener
    Task(subagent_type="message-listener", ...)
else:
    # Timeout, no messages — re-arm if still working
    Task(subagent_type="message-listener", ...)
```

## Wait Command Flags

| Flag | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `--all` | Subscribe to all messages (broadcasts + directed) |
| `--timeout 5m` | Block up to 5 minutes per cycle |
| `--after -30s` | Only return messages from last 30 seconds (skip old) |
| `--json` | Machine-readable output |
| `--mention-only` | Only messages that @mention you |

## Return Format

Messages received:
```
MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: @coordinator
PRIORITY: high
CONTENT: Please review PR #42
TIMESTAMP: 2026-02-13T10:30:00Z
---
RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to continue listening.
```

Timeout:
```
NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT
RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to continue listening.
```

## Key Rules

- **Always re-arm** after processing results
- **Return immediately** when messages arrive (don't wait for more)
- **Read-only** — the listener never sends messages
- **Cost-efficient** — runs on Haiku, blocks instead of polling
- Listener uses CLI only (`Bash` tool), not MCP tools

Commit message:

feat: auto-spawn background listener via thrum prime on Claude Code sessions
When thrum prime detects a Claude Code runtime and an active agent identity,
it appends a ready-to-use Task() spawn instruction for the background message
listener. This enables automatic listener setup on SessionStart without
manual configuration.

Also increases listener timeout from 5m to 15m per cycle (6 cycles × 15m =
~90 min coverage), adds Claude Code Plugin documentation page to website,
and adds cross-links from quickstart and agent-configs docs.

claude-plugin/skills/thrum/resources/LISTENER_PATTERN.md, after:

# Listener Pattern: Background Message Monitoring

The message-listener is a background sub-agent that blocks on `thrum wait` and returns when messages arrive. Runs on Haiku for cost efficiency (~$0.00003/cycle).

## Quick Start

```
Task(
  subagent_type="message-listener",
  model="haiku",
  run_in_background=true,
  prompt="Listen for Thrum messages. WAIT_CMD=cd /path/to/repo && thrum wait --all --timeout 15m --after -30s --json"
)
```

Replace `/path/to/repo` with the actual repo path. When using the Thrum plugin,
`thrum prime` outputs a ready-to-use spawn instruction with the correct path.

## How It Works

1. **Spawn** — Launch as background Task with `run_in_background: true`
2. **Block** — Listener runs `thrum wait` which blocks until message or timeout
3. **Return** — Returns `MESSAGES_RECEIVED` (with message data) or `NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT`
4. **Re-arm** — After processing, spawn a new listener to continue monitoring

The listener loops internally (up to 6 cycles of 15 min each = ~90 min max).

## Processing Messages

```
# When listener returns, check result
listenerResult = TaskOutput(listener_id)

if "MESSAGES_RECEIVED" in result:
    # Read full messages
    thrum inbox --unread

    # Handle by priority:
    # - critical: stop current work, handle immediately
    # - high: handle at next breakpoint
    # - normal/low: queue for later

    # Re-arm listener
    Task(subagent_type="message-listener", ...)
else:
    # Timeout, no messages — re-arm if still working
    Task(subagent_type="message-listener", ...)
```

## Wait Command Flags

| Flag | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `--all` | Subscribe to all messages (broadcasts + directed) |
| `--timeout 15m` | Block up to 15 minutes per cycle |
| `--after -30s` | Only return messages from last 30 seconds (skip old) |
| `--json` | Machine-readable output |
| `--mention-only` | Only messages that @mention you |

## Return Format

Messages received:
```
MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: @coordinator
PRIORITY: high
CONTENT: Please review PR #42
TIMESTAMP: 2026-02-13T10:30:00Z
---
RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to continue listening.
```

Timeout:
```
NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT
RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to continue listening.
```

## Key Rules

- **Always re-arm** after processing results
- **Return immediately** when messages arrive (don't wait for more)
- **Read-only** — the listener never sends messages
- **Cost-efficient** — runs on Haiku, blocks instead of polling
- Listener uses CLI only (`Bash` tool), not MCP tools
