docs/agent-configs.md, before:


# Agent Configurations

Claude Code agent definitions teach Claude how to use Thrum and Beads effectively. These `.md` files with YAML frontmatter ship in `toolkit/agents/` and load into your project's `.claude/agents/` directory.

## Install the agent configs

Copy the agent definitions to your project:

```bash
mkdir -p .claude/agents
cp toolkit/agents/*.md .claude/agents/
```

Claude Code automatically detects and loads these files when you start a session.

## Available agents

### thrum-agent

Comprehensive guide for Thrum messaging. Teaches Claude how to register agents, send/receive messages, coordinate with teammates, and choose between MCP tools and CLI.

**Use when:**
- Coordinating multi-agent workflows
- Working across worktrees or machines
- Requesting code reviews or assigning tasks
- Broadcasting status updates

**Key capabilities:**
- Agent registration with roles and intents
- Direct messaging and broadcasts
- MCP server integration with async notifications
- Message priority handling (critical/high/normal/low)
- Session management and heartbeats

### beads-agent

Guide for Beads issue tracking. Teaches Claude the task lifecycle (create, claim, close), dependency management with `blocks` relationships, and context recovery after conversation compaction.

**Use when:**
- Managing feature epics with multiple subtasks
- Tracking work across agent sessions
- Coordinating parallel work with dependency graphs
- Discovering side quests during implementation

**Key capabilities:**
- Finding ready work (unblocked tasks)
- Creating tasks with dependencies
- Epic-driven work breakdown
- Git-backed sync for multi-agent coordination
- Adding notes with documentation links

### message-listener

Lightweight background listener agent. Runs on Haiku model for cost efficiency (~$0.00003/cycle). Uses `thrum wait` for efficient blocking instead of polling loops. Returns immediately when messages arrive, covers ~30 minutes across 6 cycles.

**Use when:**
- You want async message notifications
- Working with Thrum via MCP server
- Running long sessions that need message awareness

**Key capabilities:**
- Blocking wait via `thrum wait --all --timeout 5m` (6 cycles max)
- Immediate return on message arrival
- Time-based filtering with `--after` flag (skips old messages)
- CLI-only (no MCP tools — sub-agents can't access MCP)

## Configure the message listener

The message-listener needs specific setup to run on Haiku and use your Thrum identity.

Launch it as a background task at session start:

```typescript
// In Claude Code with Thrum MCP configured
Task({
  subagent_type: "message-listener",
  model: "haiku",
  run_in_background: true,
  prompt: "Listen for Thrum messages. WAIT_CMD=cd /path/to/repo && thrum wait --all --timeout 5m --after -30s --json"
});
```

**Wait command flags:**
- `--all` — Subscribe to all messages (broadcasts + directed)
- `--timeout 5m` — Block up to 5 minutes per cycle
- `--after -30s` — Only return messages from the last 30 seconds (skips old)
- `--json` — Machine-readable output

The listener uses `thrum wait` which blocks until a message arrives or the timeout expires — no polling loops needed. Each cycle is a single Bash call. Re-arm the listener after processing messages to continue listening.

## Customize for your project

You can edit these agent definitions to match your team's workflows. Add project-specific commands, adjust priorities, or include custom context.

For the agent file format, see [Claude Code agent documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code).

## See also

- [Quickstart](quickstart.md) — Get started with Thrum in 5 minutes
- [Agent Coordination](agent-coordination.md) — Multi-agent messaging patterns
- [Workflow Templates](../toolkit/templates/) — Complete planning and implementation workflows

Commit message:

docs: sync docs/ with website/docs/, fix workflow templates
- Sync 21 docs files from website/docs → docs/ (website is source of truth)
- Add philosophy.md to docs/ and claude-agent-integration.md to website/docs/
- Add workflow-templates.md cross-references to overview, development,
  multi-agent, and agent-coordination docs
- Remove preamble-agent.md from toolkit templates (caused agent confusion)
- Sync corrected templates from dev-docs/templates → toolkit/templates

docs/agent-configs.md, after:

---
title: "Agent Configurations"
description: "Ready-to-use Claude Code agent definitions for Thrum messaging and Beads task tracking"
category: "guides"
order: 2
tags: ["agents", "claude-code", "configuration", "setup", "toolkit"]
last_updated: "2026-02-10"
---

# Agent Configurations

Claude Code agent definitions teach Claude how to use Thrum and Beads effectively. These `.md` files with YAML frontmatter ship in `toolkit/agents/` and load into your project's `.claude/agents/` directory.

## Install the agent configs

Copy the agent definitions to your project:

```bash
mkdir -p .claude/agents
cp toolkit/agents/*.md .claude/agents/
```

Claude Code automatically detects and loads these files when you start a session.

## Available agents

### thrum-agent

Comprehensive guide for Thrum messaging. Teaches Claude how to register agents, send/receive messages, coordinate with teammates, and choose between MCP tools and CLI.

**Use when:**
- Coordinating multi-agent workflows
- Working across worktrees or machines
- Requesting code reviews or assigning tasks
- Broadcasting status updates

**Key capabilities:**
- Agent registration with roles and intents
- Direct messaging and broadcasts
- MCP server integration with async notifications
- Message priority handling (critical/high/normal/low)
- Session management and heartbeats

### beads-agent

Guide for Beads issue tracking. Teaches Claude the task lifecycle (create, claim, close), dependency management with `blocks` relationships, and context recovery after conversation compaction.

**Use when:**
- Managing feature epics with multiple subtasks
- Tracking work across agent sessions
- Coordinating parallel work with dependency graphs
- Discovering side quests during implementation

**Key capabilities:**
- Finding ready work (unblocked tasks)
- Creating tasks with dependencies
- Epic-driven work breakdown
- Git-backed sync for multi-agent coordination
- Adding notes with documentation links

### message-listener

Lightweight background listener that watches for incoming Thrum messages so you
don't have to manually check your inbox. Runs on Haiku for cost efficiency
(~$0.00003/cycle). Uses `thrum wait` for efficient blocking instead of polling
loops — returns immediately when messages arrive, covers ~30 minutes across 6
cycles.

**Use when:**
- You're running multiple agents and want to know when they message you
- Working long sessions where agents on other worktrees may send updates
- You want incoming messages surfaced without manually running `thrum inbox`

**Key capabilities:**
- Blocking wait via `thrum wait --all --timeout 5m` (6 cycles max)
- Immediate return on message arrival
- Time-based filtering with `--after` flag (skips old messages)
- CLI-only (no MCP tools — sub-agents can't access MCP)

## Configure the message listener

The message-listener runs as a background task so your main agent session stays
focused on work while messages are watched for you.

Launch it at session start:

```typescript
// In Claude Code with Thrum MCP configured
Task({
  subagent_type: "message-listener",
  model: "haiku",
  run_in_background: true,
  prompt: "Listen for Thrum messages. WAIT_CMD=cd /path/to/repo && thrum wait --all --timeout 5m --after -30s --json"
});
```

**Wait command flags:**
- `--all` — Subscribe to all messages (broadcasts + directed)
- `--timeout 5m` — Block up to 5 minutes per cycle
- `--after -30s` — Only return messages from the last 30 seconds (skips old)
- `--json` — Machine-readable output

The listener uses `thrum wait` which blocks until a message arrives or the timeout expires — no polling loops needed. Each cycle is a single Bash call. Re-arm the listener after processing messages to continue listening.

## Customize for your project

You can edit these agent definitions to match your team's workflows. Add project-specific commands, adjust priorities, or include custom context.

For the agent file format, see [Claude Code agent documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code).

## See also

- [Quickstart](quickstart.md) — Get started with Thrum in 5 minutes
- [Agent Coordination](agent-coordination.md) — Multi-agent messaging patterns
- [Workflow Templates](../toolkit/templates/) — Complete planning and implementation workflows
