docs/claude-agent-integration.md, before:

# Claude Code Agent Integration

Thrum ships two Claude Code agent definitions for multi-agent coordination.
Place these in `.claude/agents/` in any project that uses Thrum.

## thrum-agent

A comprehensive coordination guide that teaches Claude Code how to use Thrum
for multi-agent workflows. Covers:

- MCP server integration and configuration
- CLI commands for messaging, sessions, and coordination
- Message listener pattern for async notifications
- Priority handling (critical/high/normal/low)
- Common workflows: task assignment, peer collaboration, code review
- Beads integration for combined task + messaging coordination
- Troubleshooting guide

**Usage:** Reference this agent when an AI agent needs to coordinate with other
agents via Thrum messaging.

<details>
<summary>thrum-agent.md</summary>

```markdown
---
name: thrum-agent
description: >
  Thrum multi-agent coordination guide. Git-backed messaging for AI agents to
  communicate across sessions, worktrees, and machines. Covers MCP server
  integration, message-listener pattern, CLI usage, and Beads integration.
---

# Thrum - Multi-Agent Coordination via Git

## Overview

Thrum is a Git-backed messaging system that enables AI agents and humans to
communicate persistently across sessions, worktrees, and machines. It uses Git
as the synchronization layer, ensuring all messages survive context window
limits, session restarts, and machine boundaries.

## Quick Start

### 1. Register and Start Session

thrum quickstart --name <your-name> --role <role> --module <module> --intent "<description>"

Common roles: planner, implementer, reviewer, tester, coordinator

### 2. Configure MCP Server (recommended)

Add to .claude/settings.json:

{
  "mcpServers": {
    "thrum": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "thrum",
      "args": ["mcp", "serve"]
    }
  }
}

### 3. Launch Background Listener

Spawn a message-listener sub-agent to get async notifications. Re-arm it every
time it returns (both MESSAGES_RECEIVED and NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT).

### 4. Communicate

thrum send "message" --to @name       # Direct message
thrum send "message" --to @everyone   # Broadcast to all
thrum inbox --unread                  # Check for new messages
thrum reply <msg-id> "response"       # Reply (creates a reply-to reference)

## MCP Tools (11 total)

**Core messaging (5):**
- send_message — Send to specific agent via @name
- check_messages — Poll inbox, auto-mark read
- wait_for_message — Block until message arrives
- list_agents — Show registered agents
- broadcast_message _(deprecated)_ — Send to all agents

**Group management (6):**
- create_group — Create a named messaging group
- delete_group — Delete a messaging group
- add_group_member — Add agent or role to group
- remove_group_member — Remove member from group
- list_groups — List all groups
- get_group — Get group details with optional expansion

## Priority Handling

| Priority | Action |
|----------|--------|
| critical | Stop current work immediately |
| high | Process at next breakpoint |
| normal | Process when current sub-task completes |
| low | Queue, process when convenient |

## Session Template

# Start
thrum quickstart --name <name> --role <role> --module <module> --intent "<desc>"
thrum inbox --unread

# During work
thrum send "status update" --to @coordinator

# End
thrum session end
```

</details>

## message-listener

A lightweight background agent (runs on Haiku for ~$0.00003/cycle) that polls
for incoming messages. It loops inbox checks with 30-second sleep intervals for
up to ~5 minutes, returning immediately when new messages arrive.

**Usage:** Spawn at the start of every coordination session. Re-arm immediately
when it returns.

<details>
<summary>message-listener.md</summary>

```markdown
---
name: message-listener
description: >
  Background listener for incoming Thrum messages. Runs on Haiku for cost
  efficiency (~$0.00003/cycle). Loops inbox checks with sleep intervals for up
  to ~5 minutes, returning immediately when new messages arrive.
model: haiku
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
---

You are a background message listener for the Thrum agent messaging system.

## CRITICAL: Tool Constraints

You do NOT have access to MCP tools. You MUST use the Bash tool exclusively to
run thrum CLI commands.

## Instructions

You run a polling loop: check inbox, sleep, repeat. Return immediately when you
find messages from other agents. Otherwise loop until your budget is exhausted.

Your prompt contains the EXACT command to use after "INBOX_CMD=". Use that
command verbatim.

**LOOP** (repeat up to 10 cycles):

1. Check inbox (Bash): Run the INBOX_CMD from your prompt EXACTLY as given.
2. If messages found, return them immediately.
3. If no messages, sleep 30 seconds.
4. Go back to step 1.

After exhausting all cycles with no messages, return NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT.

## Return Format

When messages received:

MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: [sender]
PRIORITY: [priority]
CONTENT: [message content]
---

When timeout:

NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT

Always end with:

RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to
continue listening.
```

</details>

## Setup

Copy both files into your project:

```bash
mkdir -p .claude/agents
cp docs/claude-agent-integration.md .  # For reference

# Create the agent files (or copy from this doc)
# .claude/agents/thrum-agent.md
# .claude/agents/message-listener.md
```

Or see the full agent definitions in the
[documentation site](https://leonletto.github.io/thrum).

Commit message:

docs: resolve remaining should-fix items for v0.4.4
- Add deprecation notice to broadcast_message in mcp-server.md,
  agent-coordination.md, api/authentication.md
- Fix local_only default framing in daemon.md and sync.md
- Update message-listener pattern from polling to thrum wait
- Add YAML frontmatter to 12 website/docs files missing it
- Sync all changes to docs/ via sync-docs.sh

docs/claude-agent-integration.md, after:


# Claude Code Agent Integration

Thrum ships two Claude Code agent definitions for multi-agent coordination.
Place these in `.claude/agents/` in any project that uses Thrum.

## thrum-agent

A comprehensive coordination guide that teaches Claude Code how to use Thrum
for multi-agent workflows. Covers:

- MCP server integration and configuration
- CLI commands for messaging, sessions, and coordination
- Message listener pattern for async notifications
- Priority handling (critical/high/normal/low)
- Common workflows: task assignment, peer collaboration, code review
- Beads integration for combined task + messaging coordination
- Troubleshooting guide

**Usage:** Reference this agent when an AI agent needs to coordinate with other
agents via Thrum messaging.

<details>
<summary>thrum-agent.md</summary>

```markdown
---
name: thrum-agent
description: >
  Thrum multi-agent coordination guide. Git-backed messaging for AI agents to
  communicate across sessions, worktrees, and machines. Covers MCP server
  integration, message-listener pattern, CLI usage, and Beads integration.
---

# Thrum - Multi-Agent Coordination via Git

## Overview

Thrum is a Git-backed messaging system that enables AI agents and humans to
communicate persistently across sessions, worktrees, and machines. It uses Git
as the synchronization layer, ensuring all messages survive context window
limits, session restarts, and machine boundaries.

## Quick Start

### 1. Register and Start Session

thrum quickstart --name <your-name> --role <role> --module <module> --intent "<description>"

Common roles: planner, implementer, reviewer, tester, coordinator

### 2. Configure MCP Server (recommended)

Add to .claude/settings.json:

{
  "mcpServers": {
    "thrum": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "thrum",
      "args": ["mcp", "serve"]
    }
  }
}

### 3. Launch Background Listener

Spawn a message-listener sub-agent to get async notifications. Re-arm it every
time it returns (both MESSAGES_RECEIVED and NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT).

### 4. Communicate

thrum send "message" --to @name       # Direct message
thrum send "message" --to @everyone   # Broadcast to all
thrum inbox --unread                  # Check for new messages
thrum reply <msg-id> "response"       # Reply (creates a reply-to reference)

## MCP Tools (11 total)

**Core messaging (5):**
- send_message — Send to specific agent via @name
- check_messages — Poll inbox, auto-mark read
- wait_for_message — Block until message arrives
- list_agents — Show registered agents
- broadcast_message _(deprecated)_ — Send to all agents

**Group management (6):**
- create_group — Create a named messaging group
- delete_group — Delete a messaging group
- add_group_member — Add agent or role to group
- remove_group_member — Remove member from group
- list_groups — List all groups
- get_group — Get group details with optional expansion

## Priority Handling

| Priority | Action |
|----------|--------|
| critical | Stop current work immediately |
| high | Process at next breakpoint |
| normal | Process when current sub-task completes |
| low | Queue, process when convenient |

## Session Template

# Start
thrum quickstart --name <name> --role <role> --module <module> --intent "<desc>"
thrum inbox --unread

# During work
thrum send "status update" --to @coordinator

# End
thrum session end
```

</details>

## message-listener

A lightweight background agent (runs on Haiku for ~$0.00003/cycle) that polls
for incoming messages. It loops inbox checks with 30-second sleep intervals for
up to ~5 minutes, returning immediately when new messages arrive.

**Usage:** Spawn at the start of every coordination session. Re-arm immediately
when it returns.

<details>
<summary>message-listener.md</summary>

```markdown
---
name: message-listener
description: >
  Background listener for incoming Thrum messages. Runs on Haiku for cost
  efficiency (~$0.00003/cycle). Uses `thrum wait` for efficient blocking instead
  of polling loops. Returns immediately when new messages arrive.
model: haiku
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
---

You are a background message listener for the Thrum agent messaging system.

## CRITICAL: Tool Constraints

You do NOT have access to MCP tools. You MUST use the Bash tool exclusively to
run thrum CLI commands.

## Instructions

You use `thrum wait` to block efficiently until a message arrives. No polling
loops needed — `thrum wait` uses the daemon's WebSocket push internally.

Your prompt contains the EXACT command to use after "WAIT_CMD=". Use that
command verbatim.

**LOOP** (repeat up to 6 cycles, ~90 min coverage):

1. Run the WAIT_CMD from your prompt EXACTLY as given (Bash).
2. If messages found (exit code 0), return them immediately.
3. If timeout (exit code 1), go back to step 1.
4. If error (exit code 2), return the error.

After exhausting all cycles with no messages, return NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT.

## Return Format

When messages received:

MESSAGES_RECEIVED
---
FROM: [sender]
PRIORITY: [priority]
CONTENT: [message content]
---

When timeout:

NO_MESSAGES_TIMEOUT

Always end with:

RE-ARM: This listener has stopped. Spawn a new message-listener agent to
continue listening.
```

</details>

## Setup

Copy both files into your project:

```bash
mkdir -p .claude/agents
cp docs/claude-agent-integration.md .  # For reference

# Create the agent files (or copy from this doc)
# .claude/agents/thrum-agent.md
# .claude/agents/message-listener.md
```

Or see the full agent definitions in the
[documentation site](https://leonletto.github.io/thrum).
