docs/quickstart.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart Guide"
description:
  "Get up and running with Thrum in 5 minutes - initialization, daemon setup,
  agent registration, and first message"
category: "quickstart"
order: 1
tags: ["quickstart", "getting-started", "installation", "setup", "tutorial"]
last_updated: "2026-02-12"
---

# Thrum Quickstart Guide

Get up and running with Thrum in 5 minutes.

## What is Thrum?

Thrum is a Git-backed messaging system that helps you coordinate AI agents
across sessions, worktrees, and machines using Git as the sync layer.

> **New here?** Read [Why Thrum Exists](philosophy.md) to understand the
> philosophy: you direct the work, everything is inspectable, and you stay in
> control.

## Fast Path

If you want to skip the manual setup, use the quickstart command:

    $ thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth
    $ thrum quickstart --name planner1 --role planner --module api --intent "Designing REST endpoints"

This registers your agent with a human-readable name (re-registering
automatically on conflict), starts a session, and optionally sets your work
intent in one step. The sections below walk through each step individually.

Quickstart also auto-creates an empty context file for session state persistence.
See [Agent Context Management](context.md) for details.

## Prerequisites

- Git repository
- Go 1.21 or later (for building)
- Unix-like system (macOS, Linux)

## Installation

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/leonletto/thrum.git
cd thrum
make install  # Builds UI + Go binary, installs to ~/.local/bin
```

### Or Build Go Binary Only

```bash
go build -o thrum ./cmd/thrum
```

Note: Building without `make install` will not include the embedded Web UI SPA.
The daemon will still work, but the web interface at `http://localhost:9999`
will not be available.

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Repository

Navigate to your project and initialize Thrum:

```bash
cd your-project
thrum init
```

This creates:

- `.thrum/` directory (gitignored entirely)
- `.git/thrum-sync/a-sync/` sync worktree on the `a-sync` orphan branch (for
  JSONL event logs)
- `.thrum/identities/` for agent identity files
- `.thrum/var/` for daemon runtime files
- `a-sync` orphan branch for message synchronization

If you are upgrading an existing repo that has JSONL files tracked on `main`,
run `thrum migrate` instead.

### 2. Start the Daemon

```bash
thrum daemon start
```

The daemon handles:

- RPC requests from CLI and MCP server via Unix socket
- WebSocket + embedded Web UI SPA on port 9999 (configurable via
  `THRUM_WS_PORT`)
- Background sync every 60s
- Push notifications for subscriptions
- Browser auto-registration via git config

### 3. Register Your Agent and Start a Session

The fastest way is the quickstart command, which registers, starts a session,
and sets your intent in one step:

```bash
thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth --intent "Working on auth"
```

Or register manually with individual commands:

```bash
thrum agent register --name myagent --role=implementer --module=auth
thrum session start
```

Agent names must be lowercase alphanumeric with underscores (`[a-z0-9_]+`).
Reserved names: `daemon`, `system`, `thrum`, `all`, `broadcast`.

You can also set identity via environment variables:

```bash
export THRUM_NAME=myagent     # Agent name (highest priority)
export THRUM_ROLE=implementer
export THRUM_MODULE=auth
thrum agent register
```

Priority: `THRUM_NAME` env var > `--name` flag > solo-agent auto-select.

### 4. Send Your First Message

```bash
thrum send "Started working on user authentication" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --ref issue:beads-123
```

### 5. Check Your Inbox

```bash
thrum inbox
```

View messages from other agents and humans working on the project.

## Common Commands

### Check Status

```bash
thrum status
```

Shows:

- Your agent identity
- Active session
- Inbox counts
- Sync status
- Daemon health

### Subscribe to Notifications

```bash
# Subscribe to your module
thrum subscribe --scope module:auth

# Subscribe to mentions
thrum subscribe --mention @implementer

# List active subscriptions
thrum subscriptions
```

### Sync Control

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Force immediate sync
thrum sync force
```

### Context Management

```bash
# Save context for session continuity
thrum context save --file continuation-notes.md

# View saved context
thrum context show

# Clear context
thrum context clear

# Share context across worktrees (manual sync)
thrum context sync
```

### Agent Management

```bash
# Delete an agent
thrum agent delete myagent

# Detect orphaned agents (preview)
thrum agent cleanup --dry-run

# Delete all orphaned agents
thrum agent cleanup --force
```

### End Session

```bash
thrum session end
```

### MCP Server (for LLM Agents)

Start an MCP server for native tool-based messaging (e.g., from Claude Code):

```bash
thrum mcp serve
thrum mcp serve --agent-id myagent  # Override agent identity
```

Configure in `.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "thrum": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "thrum",
      "args": ["mcp", "serve"]
    }
  }
}
```

MCP tools: `send_message`, `check_messages`, `wait_for_message`, `list_agents`,
`broadcast_message`.

## Typical Workflow

### Morning: Start Work

```bash
# 1. Start daemon (if not running)
thrum daemon start

# 2. Register and start session (or just start session if already registered)
thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth --intent "Working on auth"

# 3. Check inbox for updates
thrum inbox --unread

# 4. Subscribe to your module
thrum subscribe --scope module:auth
```

### During Work: Send Updates

```bash
# Progress updates
thrum send "Implemented password hashing" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --ref issue:beads-123

# Request review
thrum send "Auth module ready for review" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @reviewer
```

### Evening: End Work

```bash
# End session
thrum session end

# Check final status
thrum status
```

## Working Across Machines

Thrum uses Git for synchronization:

### On Machine A

```bash
# Make changes, send messages
thrum send "Completed feature X"

# Sync happens automatically every 60s
# Or force sync
thrum sync force
```

### On Machine B

```bash
# Pull latest (includes a-sync branch)
git fetch origin
git merge origin/main

# Daemon automatically syncs messages
# Or force sync
thrum sync force

# Check inbox
thrum inbox
```

## Working with Multiple Worktrees

Feature worktrees share the main worktree's daemon and message store via a
redirect file. Use `thrum setup` to configure a feature worktree:

```bash
# Main worktree (already initialized)
cd ~/project
thrum daemon start

# Feature worktree -- set up redirect to main
cd ~/project-features/auth
thrum setup
thrum session start
thrum send "Experimenting with auth approaches"
```

The `thrum setup` command creates a `.thrum/redirect` file pointing to the main
worktree's `.thrum/` directory. All worktrees then share the same sync worktree,
daemon, and message store. Messages sync across all worktrees and machines
through Git.

### Use the setup scripts for batch configuration

Two shell scripts automate redirect file creation for all your worktrees at once:

```bash
# Set up Thrum redirects for all worktrees
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh

# Set up Beads redirects for all worktrees
./scripts/setup-worktree-beads.sh
```

Both scripts auto-detect worktrees via `git worktree list` and create the
appropriate redirect files. They skip worktrees that are already configured.

#### Set up a single worktree

```bash
# Thrum redirect for one worktree
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh ~/.workspaces/thrum/my-feature

# Beads redirect for one worktree
./scripts/setup-worktree-beads.sh ~/.workspaces/thrum/my-feature
```

#### What the scripts create

Each script creates a redirect file pointing to the main repository:

```
# In the worktree:
.thrum/redirect    → /path/to/main/repo/.thrum
.beads/redirect    → /path/to/main/repo/.beads
```

This ensures all worktrees share the same daemon, message store, and issue
tracker. The scripts are idempotent — run them as many times as you need.

## Automation with Hooks

### Git Post-Commit Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .git/hooks/post-commit

thrum send "Committed: $(git log -1 --pretty=%B)" \
  --scope repo:$(basename $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)) \
  --ref commit:$(git rev-parse SHORT HEAD)
```

### Wait for Notifications

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Wait for CI results

thrum subscribe --mention @ci

if thrum wait --mention @ci --timeout=5m; then
  echo "CI feedback received"
  thrum inbox --mentions --unread
else
  echo "Timeout - no CI feedback"
fi
```

## Multi-Agent Collaboration

### Agent Roles

Different agents can have different names and roles. Multiple agents can coexist
in the same worktree:

```bash
# Implementer agent
thrum quickstart --name furiosa --role implementer --module auth

# Reviewer agent (in another terminal/session)
THRUM_NAME=maximus thrum quickstart --role reviewer --module auth
```

### Communication Pattern

```bash
# Implementer: Request review
thrum send "Auth module ready for review" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @reviewer

# Reviewer: Subscribe and wait
thrum subscribe --mention @reviewer
thrum wait --mention @reviewer

# Reviewer: Provide feedback
thrum send "LGTM - looks good to merge" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @implementer
```

## Configuration

### Identity Files

Agent identities are stored in `.thrum/identities/{name}.json` (one JSON file
per agent, created automatically by `thrum agent register` or
`thrum quickstart`). Multiple agents can coexist in a single worktree, each with
their own identity file.

### Environment Variables

Add to your shell profile:

```bash
# ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc
export THRUM_NAME=myagent       # Selects identity file (highest priority)
export THRUM_ROLE=implementer
export THRUM_MODULE=auth
```

Priority: `THRUM_NAME` env var > `--name` flag > solo-agent auto-select. For
role/module: CLI flags > Environment variables > Identity file.

## Troubleshooting

### Daemon won't start

```bash
# Check if already running (shows repo path from JSON PID file)
thrum daemon status

# Stop and restart
thrum daemon stop
thrum daemon start

# Check PID file (JSON format: PID, RepoPath, StartedAt, SocketPath)
cat .thrum/var/thrum.pid
```

The daemon uses flock-based locking (`.thrum/var/thrum.lock`) for SIGKILL
resilience and pre-startup duplicate detection to prevent multiple daemons
serving the same repository.

### Messages not syncing

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Force sync
thrum sync force

# Check Git branches
git branch -a | grep a-sync
```

### Registration conflicts

```bash
# Another agent registered with same role+module
thrum agent register --force  # Override

# Or use different role/module
thrum agent register --role=implementer-2 --module=auth
```

## Next Steps

- Read the [CLI Reference](cli.md) for complete command documentation
- Explore the [RPC API](rpc-api.md) for programmatic access
- Check [Architecture](architecture.md) to understand how Thrum works
- See [Development Guide](development.md) to contribute

## Getting Help

```bash
# Command help
thrum --help
thrum send --help

# Check status
thrum status

# View daemon logs
# (Daemon logs to stdout when run in foreground)
```

## Key Concepts

### Messages

Persistent communication between agents, stored in Git-tracked JSONL.

### Sessions

Work periods tracked per agent. Messages require an active session.

### Scopes

Categorize messages by context (module:auth, file:src/auth.go, etc.)

### Subscriptions

Get push notifications for messages matching criteria.

### Sync

Background process (60s interval) that syncs messages via Git. Data lives on the
`a-sync` orphan branch, accessed through the sync worktree at
`.git/thrum-sync/a-sync/` with sparse checkout. No branch switching needed.

### Daemon

Background service handling RPC requests, sync operations, and serving the
embedded Web UI. WebSocket and SPA are served on the same port (default 9999).

### MCP Server

Stdio-based MCP server (`thrum mcp serve`) for native tool-based agent
messaging. Enables LLM agents to use Thrum via MCP tools instead of CLI
shell-outs.

## Tips

1. **Always start a session** before sending messages
2. **Subscribe to your module** to get relevant notifications
3. **Use scopes** to categorize messages
4. **Mention other agents** when you need their attention
5. **Check sync status** if messages aren't appearing
6. **Use `--json` flag** for scripting and automation

Happy collaborating!

Commit message:

feat: auto-spawn background listener via thrum prime on Claude Code sessions
When thrum prime detects a Claude Code runtime and an active agent identity,
it appends a ready-to-use Task() spawn instruction for the background message
listener. This enables automatic listener setup on SessionStart without
manual configuration.

Also increases listener timeout from 5m to 15m per cycle (6 cycles × 15m =
~90 min coverage), adds Claude Code Plugin documentation page to website,
and adds cross-links from quickstart and agent-configs docs.

docs/quickstart.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart Guide"
description:
  "Get up and running with Thrum in 5 minutes - initialization, daemon setup,
  agent registration, and first message"
category: "quickstart"
order: 1
tags: ["quickstart", "getting-started", "installation", "setup", "tutorial"]
last_updated: "2026-02-12"
---

# Thrum Quickstart Guide

Get up and running with Thrum in 5 minutes.

## What is Thrum?

Thrum is a Git-backed messaging system that helps you coordinate AI agents
across sessions, worktrees, and machines using Git as the sync layer.

> **New here?** Read [Why Thrum Exists](philosophy.md) to understand the
> philosophy: you direct the work, everything is inspectable, and you stay in
> control.
>
> **Using Claude Code?** Install the [Thrum plugin](claude-code-plugin.md) for
> slash commands, automatic context injection, and zero-config agent setup.

## Fast Path

If you want to skip the manual setup, use the quickstart command:

    $ thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth
    $ thrum quickstart --name planner1 --role planner --module api --intent "Designing REST endpoints"

This registers your agent with a human-readable name (re-registering
automatically on conflict), starts a session, and optionally sets your work
intent in one step. The sections below walk through each step individually.

Quickstart also auto-creates an empty context file for session state persistence.
See [Agent Context Management](context.md) for details.

## Prerequisites

- Git repository
- Go 1.21 or later (for building)
- Unix-like system (macOS, Linux)

## Installation

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/leonletto/thrum.git
cd thrum
make install  # Builds UI + Go binary, installs to ~/.local/bin
```

### Or Build Go Binary Only

```bash
go build -o thrum ./cmd/thrum
```

Note: Building without `make install` will not include the embedded Web UI SPA.
The daemon will still work, but the web interface at `http://localhost:9999`
will not be available.

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Repository

Navigate to your project and initialize Thrum:

```bash
cd your-project
thrum init
```

This creates:

- `.thrum/` directory (gitignored entirely)
- `.git/thrum-sync/a-sync/` sync worktree on the `a-sync` orphan branch (for
  JSONL event logs)
- `.thrum/identities/` for agent identity files
- `.thrum/var/` for daemon runtime files
- `a-sync` orphan branch for message synchronization

If you are upgrading an existing repo that has JSONL files tracked on `main`,
run `thrum migrate` instead.

### 2. Start the Daemon

```bash
thrum daemon start
```

The daemon handles:

- RPC requests from CLI and MCP server via Unix socket
- WebSocket + embedded Web UI SPA on port 9999 (configurable via
  `THRUM_WS_PORT`)
- Background sync every 60s
- Push notifications for subscriptions
- Browser auto-registration via git config

### 3. Register Your Agent and Start a Session

The fastest way is the quickstart command, which registers, starts a session,
and sets your intent in one step:

```bash
thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth --intent "Working on auth"
```

Or register manually with individual commands:

```bash
thrum agent register --name myagent --role=implementer --module=auth
thrum session start
```

Agent names must be lowercase alphanumeric with underscores (`[a-z0-9_]+`).
Reserved names: `daemon`, `system`, `thrum`, `all`, `broadcast`.

You can also set identity via environment variables:

```bash
export THRUM_NAME=myagent     # Agent name (highest priority)
export THRUM_ROLE=implementer
export THRUM_MODULE=auth
thrum agent register
```

Priority: `THRUM_NAME` env var > `--name` flag > solo-agent auto-select.

### 4. Send Your First Message

```bash
thrum send "Started working on user authentication" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --ref issue:beads-123
```

### 5. Check Your Inbox

```bash
thrum inbox
```

View messages from other agents and humans working on the project.

## Common Commands

### Check Status

```bash
thrum status
```

Shows:

- Your agent identity
- Active session
- Inbox counts
- Sync status
- Daemon health

### Subscribe to Notifications

```bash
# Subscribe to your module
thrum subscribe --scope module:auth

# Subscribe to mentions
thrum subscribe --mention @implementer

# List active subscriptions
thrum subscriptions
```

### Sync Control

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Force immediate sync
thrum sync force
```

### Context Management

```bash
# Save context for session continuity
thrum context save --file continuation-notes.md

# View saved context
thrum context show

# Clear context
thrum context clear

# Share context across worktrees (manual sync)
thrum context sync
```

### Agent Management

```bash
# Delete an agent
thrum agent delete myagent

# Detect orphaned agents (preview)
thrum agent cleanup --dry-run

# Delete all orphaned agents
thrum agent cleanup --force
```

### End Session

```bash
thrum session end
```

### MCP Server (for LLM Agents)

Start an MCP server for native tool-based messaging (e.g., from Claude Code):

```bash
thrum mcp serve
thrum mcp serve --agent-id myagent  # Override agent identity
```

Configure in `.claude/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "thrum": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "thrum",
      "args": ["mcp", "serve"]
    }
  }
}
```

MCP tools: `send_message`, `check_messages`, `wait_for_message`, `list_agents`,
`broadcast_message`.

## Typical Workflow

### Morning: Start Work

```bash
# 1. Start daemon (if not running)
thrum daemon start

# 2. Register and start session (or just start session if already registered)
thrum quickstart --name myagent --role implementer --module auth --intent "Working on auth"

# 3. Check inbox for updates
thrum inbox --unread

# 4. Subscribe to your module
thrum subscribe --scope module:auth
```

### During Work: Send Updates

```bash
# Progress updates
thrum send "Implemented password hashing" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --ref issue:beads-123

# Request review
thrum send "Auth module ready for review" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @reviewer
```

### Evening: End Work

```bash
# End session
thrum session end

# Check final status
thrum status
```

## Working Across Machines

Thrum uses Git for synchronization:

### On Machine A

```bash
# Make changes, send messages
thrum send "Completed feature X"

# Sync happens automatically every 60s
# Or force sync
thrum sync force
```

### On Machine B

```bash
# Pull latest (includes a-sync branch)
git fetch origin
git merge origin/main

# Daemon automatically syncs messages
# Or force sync
thrum sync force

# Check inbox
thrum inbox
```

## Working with Multiple Worktrees

Feature worktrees share the main worktree's daemon and message store via a
redirect file. Use `thrum setup` to configure a feature worktree:

```bash
# Main worktree (already initialized)
cd ~/project
thrum daemon start

# Feature worktree -- set up redirect to main
cd ~/project-features/auth
thrum setup
thrum session start
thrum send "Experimenting with auth approaches"
```

The `thrum setup` command creates a `.thrum/redirect` file pointing to the main
worktree's `.thrum/` directory. All worktrees then share the same sync worktree,
daemon, and message store. Messages sync across all worktrees and machines
through Git.

### Use the setup scripts for batch configuration

Two shell scripts automate redirect file creation for all your worktrees at once:

```bash
# Set up Thrum redirects for all worktrees
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh

# Set up Beads redirects for all worktrees
./scripts/setup-worktree-beads.sh
```

Both scripts auto-detect worktrees via `git worktree list` and create the
appropriate redirect files. They skip worktrees that are already configured.

#### Set up a single worktree

```bash
# Thrum redirect for one worktree
./scripts/setup-worktree-thrum.sh ~/.workspaces/thrum/my-feature

# Beads redirect for one worktree
./scripts/setup-worktree-beads.sh ~/.workspaces/thrum/my-feature
```

#### What the scripts create

Each script creates a redirect file pointing to the main repository:

```
# In the worktree:
.thrum/redirect    → /path/to/main/repo/.thrum
.beads/redirect    → /path/to/main/repo/.beads
```

This ensures all worktrees share the same daemon, message store, and issue
tracker. The scripts are idempotent — run them as many times as you need.

## Automation with Hooks

### Git Post-Commit Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .git/hooks/post-commit

thrum send "Committed: $(git log -1 --pretty=%B)" \
  --scope repo:$(basename $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)) \
  --ref commit:$(git rev-parse SHORT HEAD)
```

### Wait for Notifications

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Wait for CI results

thrum subscribe --mention @ci

if thrum wait --mention @ci --timeout=5m; then
  echo "CI feedback received"
  thrum inbox --mentions --unread
else
  echo "Timeout - no CI feedback"
fi
```

## Multi-Agent Collaboration

### Agent Roles

Different agents can have different names and roles. Multiple agents can coexist
in the same worktree:

```bash
# Implementer agent
thrum quickstart --name furiosa --role implementer --module auth

# Reviewer agent (in another terminal/session)
THRUM_NAME=maximus thrum quickstart --role reviewer --module auth
```

### Communication Pattern

```bash
# Implementer: Request review
thrum send "Auth module ready for review" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @reviewer

# Reviewer: Subscribe and wait
thrum subscribe --mention @reviewer
thrum wait --mention @reviewer

# Reviewer: Provide feedback
thrum send "LGTM - looks good to merge" \
  --scope module:auth \
  --mention @implementer
```

## Configuration

### Identity Files

Agent identities are stored in `.thrum/identities/{name}.json` (one JSON file
per agent, created automatically by `thrum agent register` or
`thrum quickstart`). Multiple agents can coexist in a single worktree, each with
their own identity file.

### Environment Variables

Add to your shell profile:

```bash
# ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc
export THRUM_NAME=myagent       # Selects identity file (highest priority)
export THRUM_ROLE=implementer
export THRUM_MODULE=auth
```

Priority: `THRUM_NAME` env var > `--name` flag > solo-agent auto-select. For
role/module: CLI flags > Environment variables > Identity file.

## Troubleshooting

### Daemon won't start

```bash
# Check if already running (shows repo path from JSON PID file)
thrum daemon status

# Stop and restart
thrum daemon stop
thrum daemon start

# Check PID file (JSON format: PID, RepoPath, StartedAt, SocketPath)
cat .thrum/var/thrum.pid
```

The daemon uses flock-based locking (`.thrum/var/thrum.lock`) for SIGKILL
resilience and pre-startup duplicate detection to prevent multiple daemons
serving the same repository.

### Messages not syncing

```bash
# Check sync status
thrum sync status

# Force sync
thrum sync force

# Check Git branches
git branch -a | grep a-sync
```

### Registration conflicts

```bash
# Another agent registered with same role+module
thrum agent register --force  # Override

# Or use different role/module
thrum agent register --role=implementer-2 --module=auth
```

## Next Steps

- Read the [CLI Reference](cli.md) for complete command documentation
- Explore the [RPC API](rpc-api.md) for programmatic access
- Check [Architecture](architecture.md) to understand how Thrum works
- See [Development Guide](development.md) to contribute

## Getting Help

```bash
# Command help
thrum --help
thrum send --help

# Check status
thrum status

# View daemon logs
# (Daemon logs to stdout when run in foreground)
```

## Key Concepts

### Messages

Persistent communication between agents, stored in Git-tracked JSONL.

### Sessions

Work periods tracked per agent. Messages require an active session.

### Scopes

Categorize messages by context (module:auth, file:src/auth.go, etc.)

### Subscriptions

Get push notifications for messages matching criteria.

### Sync

Background process (60s interval) that syncs messages via Git. Data lives on the
`a-sync` orphan branch, accessed through the sync worktree at
`.git/thrum-sync/a-sync/` with sparse checkout. No branch switching needed.

### Daemon

Background service handling RPC requests, sync operations, and serving the
embedded Web UI. WebSocket and SPA are served on the same port (default 9999).

### MCP Server

Stdio-based MCP server (`thrum mcp serve`) for native tool-based agent
messaging. Enables LLM agents to use Thrum via MCP tools instead of CLI
shell-outs.

## Tips

1. **Always start a session** before sending messages
2. **Subscribe to your module** to get relevant notifications
3. **Use scopes** to categorize messages
4. **Mention other agents** when you need their attention
5. **Check sync status** if messages aren't appearing
6. **Use `--json` flag** for scripting and automation

Happy collaborating!
